So with that let's get started with our application here and there are various ways of getting started
of course.
I want I get started by first of all dropping this container style here in my starting screen and instead
I want to get rid of the text and everything here and then I want to start by adding my own header.
So this bar at the top of the street.
Now we can build such a bar on our own here we get rid of that input which you don't need.
And I will build it not inside of this app component but in a separate component file in a separate
custom component because that's already one super important thing to take away just like in react for
web apps.
It is a good practice to split your app into multiple components which you then compose to gather because
dad leads to more manageable and reusable code.
So add a new folder components the name is up to you though you can name that folder whatever you want
and in there I want to have a header J.S. file to hold the header component.
Dear we need to import react from react so that we can well use react in there and write.
J as X code and then we'll also need some components from React Native because you must never forget
that these are the only core components you can use in the end.
You can't use any web age him Al elements or anything like that.
You need these core primitives React Native gives you.
So we'll definitely need a view in here and also a text component and also style sheet component.
And now with that we can get started building our header.
So for this I'll add a header constant which holds my functional component because I'll work with functional
components only in this course we'll use hooks in places where we need to manage state or a side effects.
And here we will of course export this component in the end and also set up a stylus object with style
sheet create so that we can styled is in the end.
Now let's create our component here.
Let's return something here.
And what I want to return is in the end of the you with the text inside of it and the text should be
our title.
So therefore between the opening and closing text attack here I will output props title so did our own
component can receive the title proper and output this year and the view surrounding the text will be
used for positioning the text and for giving this some styling so for styling our header because text
elements on their own are all the stylus all but not to the same extent like views are views really
are a bit more flexible regarding the styles you can assign and regarding how they behave and therefore
you always want to use a view for such a surrounding container and Ford is overall styling your component
might have or parts of your component might have.
So here all at the style prop and assign a style for my styles object a style we haven't created there
yet but I'll name it header and I'll also give the text a style prompt though and point at Styles header
title or whatever you want to name it because as I said you can style text to it if you don't want to
have some text specific styles later to also make sure that the text looks good so now you're in the
style sheet we can start styling our header and I'll start with the header itself by adding a header
prop and then does object will hold these style definitions for the header so for it is the new component
here and there of course you are free to experiment with whatever you want I'll go with a width of 100
percent so that it takes the full device width we can get or the full width of the parent component
to be precise but all added such that the parent component takes the full device width and therefore
this will also take the full device with the end assign a height and there you can experiment with different
values I found ninety to look quite decent and therefore I'll go with that.
Side note for now I will optimize for these screens which I have here in the next course module will
dive into how you can adjust your your views and you and your code for different devices both regarding
their size as well as regarding the platform your code is running on for now will not have any differentiation
there will adjust Q in our app to look good on these two emulators but again I'll pick up on this later.
So height of 90 a padding of top padding to top of 36 to have some spacing to the top and I need to
add this to basically cope or things like the status bar here or this notch here so therefore I add
this padding top and I also want to add a background color here.
And now you are of course totally free to pick any color you want.
I prepared a nice color a hex code of a color which I personally like and that is hash symbol F seven
to eight seven B which is quite a nice color in my opinion as you will see in a second.
Now I also want to center the title and they offer all use a line items and justify content because
every view by default uses flex box and data from with a line items and justify content we can control
how to child elements of the view are positioned inside of the view and with Center for a line items
and justify content.
All set to center we center all children or child element instead of the view in while the center both
horizontally and vertically.
Now forward a header title.
I also want to set up some styles for this.
So the header title here while that should get a color of black because that will fit discolored urine
so that we can read the text and I want to set the font size to 18.
Let's say so that we have this fixed a bit bigger font size here with that.
Let's try using this header and let's use it in the app J.S. file here there.
We have this view and this view has no style attached.
I will change this and set up a screen view here and give it as a flex of one attribute.
Now we can assign this here and flex one will ensure that this view takes all the space it can get.
And since it's the root view of our application that means it will take all the width and height it
can get it will occupy the full screen and they are fluorescence my header takes width 100 percent since
I'll add it directly inside of this view which is now configured to take the full width and height this
header will also take to full with.
So now we just need to add the header here of course.
So import header from dot slash components header.
You can omit do you file extension and then simply add header as a self closing tag here but don't forget
to set a title prop because remember that we're outputting the title prop here between the text tax
so we can add a title here and I'll name it guess a number because that's what our game is about.
Now if we save this it should automatically rebuild and you should see a header that looks like this
on the iPhone and like this here on Android and I'd say that's OK for both devices again we'll later
explore ways of how you can find q and a look to the specific device your app is running on.